<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY  enter  "↵">
  <!ENTITY  esc    "ESC">
  <!ENTITY  ctrl   "CRTL+">
  <!ENTITY  alt    "ALT+">
  <!ENTITY  space  "␣">
]>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/internalns"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xml:lang="en"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Gemse Release Notes</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Release Notes</h1>

<h2>1.0.7</h2>

<ul>
<li>Added the content insert mode which allows one to write Content MathML</li>
<li>Added an edit mode command to follow an <code>xref</code>.</li>
<li>The command of the edit mode that creates an mrow around the
selection now creates an apply element instead, if the
first element of the selection is a Content MathML element.</li>
<li>Implemented better strategy for updating views.</li>
</ul>

<h2>1.0.6</h2>

<ul>
<li>The user interface changed drastically: Views and viewsets have been introduced. As
a side effect, the XHTML interface has been replaced by a XUL interface. Now
<code>editor.xul</code> has to be used instead of
<code>editor.xhtml</code>.</li>
<li>The tutorial has been updated.</li>
<li>The equation turning up when starting Gemse is now the empty one.
The old one can be loaded from <code>doc/example02.xml</code>.</li>
<li>Element descriptions in <code>elementDescriptors.js</code> have
been updated. They now correspond to the Presentation MathML part of
the working draft
<a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/2009/WD-MathML3-20090604/">http://www.w3.org/TR/2009/WD-MathML3-20090604/</a>.
</li>
<li>Updated documentation on how to install and run Gemse.</li>
</ul>

<h2>1.0.5</h2>

<ul>
<li>Gemse is now available as Firefox extension, XUL application and
as a Minimal edition for use outside of the Firefox chrome. Of course
a source package which contains a script which creates the packages is
also available.</li>
<li>Some documentation for developers has been added, which introduces
the basic ideas of Gemse. Most of it has still to be written. However,
detailed documentation can be found in the sourcecode itself and can
be extracted using the JsDoc toolkit.</li>
<li>The stylesheet is now structured more readable and contains
comments.</li>
<li>When more than one equations are open, only the one you are
currently editing is shown in full size. This behaviour can be changed
by editing the stylesheet.</li>
</ul>

<h2>1.0.4</h2>

<ul>
<li>The UCD insert mode now treats combining characters in a special
way.</li>
<li>The processing of commands has been completely revised. A new
class CommandHandler is used by the modes to process commands. This
saves a lot of code replication and all features are available to all
modes. The modes can further process input if no command have been
found or if an error occured. As a side effect, the documentation of
the commands has changed.</li>
<li>The default insert mode is now the UCD insert mode. The insert
mode can be changed by pressing the tabulator key while in edit
mode.</li>
<li>The default register is now called ". Change and delete commands
now put a copy of the removed elements into the default register. Copy
commands also put a second copy the the yanked elements onto the
default register. So the behaviour now equals vim's behaviour in this
regard.</li>
<li>A lot of documentation in the source code has been added. The
code has been improved in many places.</li>
<li>More commands and bugfixes.</li>
</ul>

<h2>1.0.3</h2>

<ul>
<li>An operator dictionary has been added. Up to now, it is only used
by the attribute mode. There you can set attributes according to a
dictionary entry. The dictoinary is based on the operator dictionary
provided by the MathML 2 specification.</li>
<li>The input substitution has been changed fundamentally. The
sequences that get substituted look now like XML entities.
One can insert characters by their codepoint: For example
<code>&amp;#x03b1;</code> gets substituted with α. Characters can also
be inserted by name: For example <code>&amp;alpha;</code> gives α as
well. The names are taken from 
<a href="http://www.w3.org/2003/entities/2007doc/">the w3c's
collection of entities</a>. In this release, input substitution is on
by default.</li>
<li>A new UCD-based input mode has been added. UCD-based means that
the mode queries the unicode character database to find out whether a
character is an operator, an identifier or a digit. This means that
you do not need to hit <kbd>o</kbd> before an operator or <kbd>i</kbd> before an identifier.
The old input mode is the default, you can change this by hitting the
tab key.</li>
<li>Unicode characters that do not reside in the BMP (for example 𝕂),
can now be used everywhere: As name of commands in all modes, as names
of registers and as operators or identifiers in the insert modes.
The problematic part about that is that JavaScript stores unicode
characters with 16 bits per character. Since characters outside the BMP
can not be represented by 16 bits, a pair of surrogate characters is
used, that is, they are represented by two characters. So everywhere
Gemse expects one character, it has to check whether it is a surrogate
and in this case has to take two characters!</li>
<li>The command <kbd>:export</kbd> has been added to the edit mode. It
allows you to translate your equation into LaTeX. At the moment,
however, you need to download the additional library that is needed
for this feature yourself. More information you can find in the
documentation of this command.</li>
</ul>

<h2>1.0.2</h2>

<p>The surround feature has been added to the insert mode. It allows
you for examlpe to first write the base of a potency and then hit
<kbd>^</kbd> later on.</p>

<p>Sometimes it happened that inserting a wrong
command screwed up the whole editor since it was no longer possible to
clear the input box. Now clearing the input box using <kbd>&esc;</kbd>
should always work.</p>

<p>Some commands have been added and the documentation
has been improved.</p>

<h2>1.0.1</h2>

<p>Many commands have been added. The insert mode supports more
elements. More documentation, including a short introcution to
Presentation MathML has been added. This is still a development
release tought to get feedback from users.</p>

<h2>1.0.0</h2>

<p>This first release shows the idea behind Gemse. It is still missing
many features. It is not a production release but thought for
collecting feedback from potential users.</p>

</body>

</html>
