<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY  enter  "↵">
  <!ENTITY  esc    "ESC">
  <!ENTITY  ctrl   "CRTL+">
  <!ENTITY  alt    "ALT+">
  <!ENTITY  space  "␣">
]>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/internalns"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xml:lang="en"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Introduction to Presentation MathML</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Introduction to Presentation MathML</h1>

<p>Mathematicians usually have good knowledge of LaTeX. Because this
is probably not true for MathML and because I want mathematicians to
be able to use Gemse, I give here a very short introduction to
Presentation MathML. However, this introduction scratches only the
surface of Presentation MathML, so you want to look into the 
<a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/">MathML specification</a>
afterwards. Additionally, there is the <kbd>:help element</kbd>
command to open the specification for the element under the cursor.
To look up the specification for a specific element, say
<code>mrow</code>, use <kbd>:help element mrow</kbd>.</p>

<h2>MathML</h2>

<p>MathML is a markup language based on XML stanardized by the W3C. It
consists of two complementary parts, Presentation Markup and Content Markup.
If we want to refer to the Presentation Markup of MathML we often just call
it Presentation MathML. Similarly, we often call the Content Markup simply
Content MathML.</p>

<p>The Presentation Markup captures the structure of a written formula. It
describes which characters are identifiers, operators, and numbers and
defines how they visually relate to each other. The Presentation Markup might
for instance say that there is a fraction and above the bar of the fraction is
an identifier "a" and below is the number 2. The exact rendering may differ from
device to device. The formulas might be read aloud by a text to speech system or
a part of them might be copy-pasted into another application. A formula can be
integrated in an HTML document on a website. Its appearance (font, colour,
background, borders) can be influenced with CSS the same way an HTML document is
styled. Finally, the formula can be made interactive
using JavaScript.</p>

<p>The Content Markup captures the actual meaning of a formula as opposed
to its visual appearance. For instance,
<m:math><m:msub><m:mi>f</m:mi><m:mi>x</m:mi></m:msub></m:math> 
might denote the function with index <m:math><m:mi>x</m:mi></m:math> 
of a set of functions in some documents while it denotes the derivative in
<m:math><m:mi>x</m:mi></m:math>
in other texts. The Content Markup explicitely and precisely tells
which meaning is intended, making it clearly understandable to
mathematical software. But the Content Markup does not tell how to write the
formula down, giving no instructions on how to present the formula
to a human.
Content Markup cannot easily be converted to Presentation Markup because how
a formula is written very much depends on the context and conventions
established in a document or field of research. However, it is possible to
formulate rules for such a conversion, albeit not with MathML itself.</p>

<p>For comparison, LaTeX is a complete typesetting system. The LaTeX code we
write is an actual program that outputs a typeset document. The output is
usually a PDF which precisely describes the shape and location of each
character to reproduce it exactly the same in print as on screen.
MathML is much more verbose than LaTeX as it has to capture
more information which LaTeX figures out on its own. On the other hand,
MathML can be used in many more diverse ways than just displaying and
printing. The cost of this is that MathML is more of a nuisance to author.
Writing MathML by hand with a plain text editor is not advisable.</p>

<h2>Unicode</h2>

<p>In order to store and process text on a computer, one needs a convention
on how to represent text inside the memory of the computer. The most
popular convention is the <a href="https://home.unicode.org/">Unicode</a>
standard. It assigns to each character
a unique number, called the Unicode code point. Unicode includes Latin
characters but also characters
from almost all scripts used around the world. This includes the Greek
alphabet and a plethora of mathematical symbols. For example, the
rightward arrow <code>→</code> is assigned the number 8594 (or 0x2192 in
hexadecimal notation). Instead of giving
names to characters (e.g. <code>\rightarrow</code> as you would do in LaTeX),
MathML directly uses the characters from Unicode. As a consequence, you will often
come into contact with Unicode while using Gemse. For example, if there is no
easier way, Gemse will always allow you to insert any character by entering its
Unicode code point, which you can lookup in the
<a href="http://www.unicode.org/charts/">Character Code Charts</a> of the Unicode
standard. Additionally, Gemse obtains information about characters
(e.g. if its an operator or identifier) from the Unicode standard.</p>

<h2>Tags and Elements</h2>

<p>MathML builds on XML. An XML document is simply a text file with some of
the characters having special meaning.</p>

<p>Let us directly look at an example:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <msup>
            <mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </msup>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mrow>
            <mo>(</mo>
            <mfrac linethickness="0"><mi>n</mi><mi>k</mi></mfrac>
            <mo>)</mo>
        </mrow>
        <msup>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </msup>
        <msup>
            <mi>b</mi>
            <mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow>
        </msup>
    </mrow>
</math>

<p>This formulated in MathML looks like the following:</p>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <msup>
            <mrow><mo>(</mo><mi>a</mi><mo>+</mo><mi>b</mi><mo>)</mo></mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </msup>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mrow>
            <mo>(</mo>
            <mfrac linethickness="0"><mi>n</mi><mi>k</mi></mfrac>
            <mo>)</mo>
        </mrow>
        <msup>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </msup>
        <msup>
            <mi>b</mi>
            <mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow>
        </msup>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>Those parts that begin with a <code>&lt;</code> and end with the
next <code>&gt;</code> are called tags. There are two sorts of tags:
Start tags and end tags. Those that begin with
<code>&lt;/</code> are the end tags, the others are start tags.
For example, <code>&lt;mrow&gt;</code> is a start tag and
<code>&lt;/mrow&gt;</code> is an end tag. (There is also an
empty-element tag, which is a start and an end tag at the same time.
Such a tag is for example <code>&lt;mrow /&gt;</code>.)</p>

<p>Every start tag must have a corresponding end tag. Together with
the text between them, they form an element. The text between the tags
is called the content of the element. The content can consist of other
elements or plain text. The name of the element is given by the tags. Consider
<code><![CDATA[<mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow>]]></code>.
This is an element with the name <code>mrow</code>. It contains three
elements which have the names <code>mi</code>, <code>mo</code> and
<code>mn</code>. We will call an element with the a name
<code>A</code> an <code>A</code> element: Our <code>mrow</code> element
contains an <code>mi</code>, an <code>mo</code> and an <code>mn</code>
element.</p>

<p>We can see now that the elements form a tree structure. Indeed,
in the case of
<code><![CDATA[<mrow><mi>k</mi><mo>=</mo><mn>1</mn></mrow>]]></code>,
we have an <code>mrow</code> element as the root of the tree.
It has 3 children, an <code>mi</code> element, an <code>mn</code> element,
and an <code>mn</code> element. The children are ordered and changing
their order changes the meaning. The <code>mrow</code> element is called
the parent of the <code>mi</code>, <code>mo</code>, and <code>mn</code> elements.
The children of an element, their children, as well as all further ones
below are called descendants of the element. The parent, grandparent, and any
further ones above are called ancestors of the element. In the example above,
the <code><![CDATA[<mo>∑</mo>]]></code> is called a descendant of the
<code>munderover</code> element it is contained in because it is its child.
It is also a descendant of the outermost <code>mrow</code> element.
On the other hand, <code>munderover</code> element is an ancestor of the
<code><![CDATA[<mo>∑</mo>]]></code> and so is the outermost <code>mrow</code>
element. The <code>math</code> element is the root and therefore an ancestor
of all other elements and all other elements are its descendants.</p>

<p>But there is more: Every element can have attributes. Attributes
are just key-value pairs. The same key can only be used in one
of the attributes on the same element. Unlike for children of an element, the
order of the attributes does not matter. An attribute has the form
<code>key="value"</code> and is placed in the start tag of the
element. In the example you can spot an <code>mfrac</code> element
wich has a <code>linethickness</code> attribute with value
<code>0</code>.</p>

<h2>Identifiers, operators and numbers</h2>

<p>In LaTeX, if we want to have a φ, we can write a φ, without marking it in a special way.
LaTeX then figures out on its own that it has to set the φ as a variable, not as an operator.
In MathML, we have to be explicit: We must put
the φ into an <code>mi</code> element, like this:
<code>&lt;mi&gt;φ&lt;/mi&gt;</code>. For an identifier we use an
<code>mi</code> element. For an operator we have to use an
<code>mo</code> element. The <code>mn</code> element is for literal
numbers. (<q>Literal</q> means written number such as 0, 1, and 3.141.
An <code>mn</code> element is not suited for a variable
<m:math><m:mi>a</m:mi></m:math> 
even if <m:math><m:mi>a</m:mi><m:mo>∈</m:mo><m:mi>ℝ</m:mi></m:math>.
In this case, you must use <code>mi</code>.)</p>

<p>The <code>mo</code> element is very powerful. It is not only used
for operators like <code>+</code>, <code>·</code> and the like, but it
is also used for fences, arrows, separators and more. It is even used for accents
like a hat over a variable. The <code>mo</code> element has many
attributes which control the behaviour of the operators.
However, these attributes have default values depending on the content
of the <code>mo</code> element. Every MathML renderer has an operator
dictionary which tells it the default values if it encounters an
<code>mo</code> element containing a known operator. But it can be
that you wish to change these defaults or that you have to set them
because you use an operator that is not found in the dictionary. You
can look up the 
<a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/appendixc.html">operator 
dictionary in the MathML specification</a>. You can read about the
attributes in the 
<a href="http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/chapter3.html#presm.mo">section
about <code>mo</code></a> in the MathML specification. It is quite a
big section, you may want to read it after you have gone through the
rest of this introduction.</p>

<h2>Superscripts and subscripts</h2>

<p>Look at the following part of our example:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msup>
        <mi>b</mi>
        <mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow>
    </msup>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msup>
        <mi>b</mi>
        <mrow><mi>n</mi><mo>-</mo><mi>k</mi></mrow>
    </msup>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>The first child of the <code>msup</code> element is the base, the
second is the superscript. In this case, the superscript does not only
consist of an identifier or a number but is a whole expression
consisting of more than one element, so we have to put it in an
mrow. Subscripts are done with <code>msub</code>:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msub>
        <mi>a</mi>
        <mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>k</mi></mrow>
    </msub>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msub>
        <mi>a</mi>
        <mrow><mi>i</mi><mi>k</mi></mrow>
    </msub>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p><code>msub</code> and <code>msup</code> can be combined:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msup>
        <msub>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mn>1</mn>
        </msub>
        <mn>2</mn>
    </msup>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msup>
        <msub>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mn>1</mn>
        </msub>
        <mn>2</mn>
    </msup>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>But that's perhaps not what you want. In order to put subscript and
superscript tight to the base, use <code>msubsup</code>. This element
has three children.</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msubsup>
        <mi>x</mi>
        <mn>1</mn>
        <mn>2</mn>
    </msubsup>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <msubsup>
        <mi>x</mi>
        <mn>1</mn>
        <mn>2</mn>
    </msubsup>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>But you can get the full power with the <code>mmultipscripts</code>
element. It can not only place multiple subscripts and superstcripts
behind a base but also before it:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mmultiscripts>
        <mi>A</mi>
        <mn>1</mn>
        <mn>2</mn>
        <mprescripts/>
        <none/>
        <mi>a</mi>
        <mi>c</mi>
        <mi>b</mi>
        <mi>d</mi>
        <none/>
    </mmultiscripts>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mmultiscripts>
        <mi>A</mi>
        <mn>1</mn>
        <mn>2</mn>
        <mprescripts/>
        <none/>
        <mi>a</mi>
        <mi>c</mi>
        <mi>b</mi>
        <mi>d</mi>
        <none/>
    </mmultiscripts>
</math>
]]></pre>

<h2>munder and mover</h2>

<p>For integrals, sums, products and so on, you want to put the limits
above and below the sign. This is done by <code>munder</code>,
<code>mover</code> and <code>munderover</code>.</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munder>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>∈</mo><mi>ℕ</mi></mrow>
        </munder>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <mi>i</mi>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munder>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow><mi>i</mi><mo>∈</mo><mi>ℕ</mi></mrow>
        </munder>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <mi>i</mi>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∫</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∫</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>Look how <code>munder</code>, <code>mover</code> and
<code>munderover</code> change their behaviour when you change the
value of the display attribute of the <code>math</code> element to
<code>inline</code>:</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline">
    <mrow>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∫</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mo>,</mo>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mo>,</mo>
        <munder>
            <mo>lim</mo>
            <mrow>
                <mi>n</mi>
                <mo>→</mo>
                <mi>∞</mi>
            </mrow>
        </munder>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="inline">
    <mrow>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∫</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mo>,</mo>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mi>a</mi>
            <mi>b</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mo>,</mo>
        <munder>
            <mo>lim</mo>
            <mrow>
                <mi>n</mi>
                <mo>→</mo>
                <mi>∞</mi>
            </mrow>
        </munder>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]>
</pre>

<p>Actually, <code>inline</code> is the default. So
omitting this attribute has the same effect as setting it to
<code>inline</code>. You use <code>inline</code> if your formula
flows inside the text. If you want to set it apart from the text of
the paragraph on its own line, you use <code>block</code>.</p>

<h2>Fractions</h2>

<p>For this there is the <code>mfrac</code> element.</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <mn>2</mn>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <mn>2</mn>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>You can use fractions to write biniomial coefficients:</p>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mfrac linethickness="0">
            <mi>n</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mfrac linethickness="0">
            <mi>n</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>The <code>linethickness</code> attribute suppresses the horizontal
bar of the fraction.</p>

<h2>Roots</h2>

<p>The elements <code>msqrt</code> and <code>root</code> do the
obvious thing:</p>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <msqrt>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mo>+</mo>
            <msup>
                <mi>y</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </msqrt>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <msqrt>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mo>+</mo>
            <msup>
                <mi>y</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </msqrt>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mroot>
            <mrow>
                <msup>
                    <mi>x</mi>
                    <mn>2</mn>
                </msup>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <msup>
                    <mi>y</mi>
                    <mn>2</mn>
                </msup>
            </mrow>
            <mn>3</mn>
        </mroot>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mroot>
            <mrow>
                <msup>
                    <mi>x</mi>
                    <mn>2</mn>
                </msup>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <msup>
                    <mi>y</mi>
                    <mn>2</mn>
                </msup>
            </mrow>
            <mn>3</mn>
        </mroot>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<h2>Tables</h2>

<p>Tables in MathML are a little bit like tables in HTML. There are
the elements <code>mtable</code>, <code>mtr</code> and
<code>mtd</code>.</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mtable>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
        </mtable>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mtable>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>0</mn> </mtd>
                <mtd> <mn>1</mn> </mtd>
            </mtr>
        </mtable>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>Note that the fences are not part of the table, you have to put
them with <code>mo</code> elements. Like this you can also use other
brackets or none at all.</p>

<p>Instead of <code>mtr</code> you can also use
<code>mlabeledtr</code>, which interprets its first child as a label
for this row. Otherwise, it works just like <code>mtr</code>.</p>

<h2>mfenced</h2>

<p>The <code>mfenced</code> element is a shorter notation for its equivalent using
<code>mo</code> elements. For example</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mfenced><mi>x</mi><mi>y</mi><mi>z</mi></mfenced>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mfenced><mi>x</mi><mi>y</mi><mi>z</mi></mfenced>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>is equivalent to</p>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mrow>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mo>,</mo>
            <mi>y</mi>
            <mo>,</mo>
            <mi>z</mi>
        </mrow>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>The <code>mfenced</code> element has three
attributes which control what operators are used: The attribute
<code>open</code> declares which operator is used at the beginning. It
is <code>(</code> by default. <code>close</code> is for the operator
at the end, <code>)</code> by default. The attribute
<code>separators</code> provides the operators put between the children
of the <code>mfenced</code> element. It is <code>,</code> by
default.</p>

<h2>Examples</h2>

<p>I will here give you a waterfall of examples. They are mainly
transcribed from <q>The Not So Short Introduction To LateX2e</q> using
Gemse.</p>

<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munder>
            <mi>lim</mi>
            <mrow>
                <mi>n</mi>
                <mo>→</mo>
                <mi>∞</mi>
            </mrow>
        </munder>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow>
                <mi>k</mi>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mi>1</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <msup>
                <mi>k</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <mfrac>
            <msup>
                <mi>π</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mn>6</mn>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML" display="block">
    <mrow>
        <munder>
            <mi>lim</mi>
            <mrow>
                <mi>n</mi>
                <mo>→</mo>
                <mi>∞</mi>
            </mrow>
        </munder>
        <munderover>
            <mo>∑</mo>
            <mrow>
                <mi>k</mi>
                <mo>=</mo>
                <mi>1</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mi>n</mi>
        </munderover>
        <mfrac>
            <mn>1</mn>
            <msup>
                <mi>k</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <mfrac>
            <msup>
                <mi>π</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mn>6</mn>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∀</mo>
        <mrow>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mo>∈</mo>
            <mi>ℝ</mi>
        </mrow>
        <mo>:</mo>
        <mrow>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mo>≥</mo>
            <mn>0</mn>
        </mrow>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∀</mo>
        <mrow>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mo>∈</mo>
            <mi>ℝ</mi>
        </mrow>
        <mo>:</mo>
        <mrow>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
            <mo>≥</mo>
            <mn>0</mn>
        </mrow>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <msup>
            <mi>ℯ</mi>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </msup>
        <mo>≠</mo>
        <msup>
            <msup>
                <mi>ℯ</mi>
                <mi>x</mi>
            </msup>
            <mn>2</mn>
        </msup>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <msup>
            <mi>ℯ</mi>
            <msup>
                <mi>x</mi>
                <mn>2</mn>
            </msup>
        </msup>
        <mo>≠</mo>
        <msup>
            <msup>
                <mi>ℯ</mi>
                <mi>x</mi>
            </msup>
            <mn>2</mn>
        </msup>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mover>
            <mrow>
                <mi>m</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>n</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>¯</mo>
        </mover>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mover>
            <mrow>
                <mi>m</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>n</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>¯</mo>
        </mover>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>In the above I am not shure whether one should use 
‾ (OVERLINE U+203E) or as above ¯ (MACRON U+00AF). Firefox stretches
only the latter. Also, the operator dictionary found in the
specification does not contain the overline, but declares the macron
to be stretchy. So it is best to use the macron.</p>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <munder accentunder="true">
            <mrow>
                <mi>a</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>b</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mo>⋯</mo>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>z</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>⏟</mo>
        </munder>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <munder accentunder="true">
            <mrow>
                <mi>a</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>b</mi>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mo>⋯</mo>
                <mo>+</mo>
                <mi>z</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>⏟</mo>
        </munder>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mover accent="true">
            <mrow>
                <mi>A</mi>
                <mi>B</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>→</mo>
        </mover>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mover accent="true">
            <mrow>
                <mi>A</mi>
                <mi>B</mi>
            </mrow>
            <mo>→</mo>
        </mover>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mfrac linethickness="0">
            <mi>n</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mfrac linethickness="0">
            <mi>n</mi>
            <mi>k</mi>
        </mfrac>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∫</mo>
        <mrow>
            <msub>
                <mi>f</mi>
                <mi>N</mi>
            </msub>
            <mo>(</mo>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mo>)</mo>
        </mrow>
        <mover>
            <mo>=</mo>
            <mo>!</mo>
        </mover>
        <mn>1</mn>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∫</mo>
        <mrow>
            <msub>
                <mi>f</mi>
                <mi>N</mi>
            </msub>
            <mo>(</mo>
            <mi>x</mi>
            <mo>)</mo>
        </mrow>
        <mover>
            <mo>=</mo>
            <mo>!</mo>
        </mover>
        <mn>1</mn>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<p>Look what happens when we do not use an <code>mrow</code> element:</p>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∫</mo>
        <msub>
            <mi>f</mi>
            <mi>N</mi>
        </msub>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mi>x</mi>
        <mo>)</mo>
        <mover>
            <mo>=</mo>
            <mo>!</mo>
        </mover>
        <mn>1</mn>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mo>∫</mo>
        <msub>
            <mi>f</mi>
            <mi>N</mi>
        </msub>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mi>x</mi>
        <mo>)</mo>
        <mover>
            <mo>=</mo>
            <mo>!</mo>
        </mover>
        <mn>1</mn>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mi>X</mi>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mtable>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋯</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋯</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋮</mo>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋮</mo>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋱</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
        </mtable>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mi>X</mi>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <mo>(</mo>
        <mtable>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋯</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                            <mn>1</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <msub>
                        <mi>x</mi>
                        <mrow>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                            <mn>2</mn>
                        </mrow>
                    </msub>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋯</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
            <mtr>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋮</mo>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋮</mo>
                </mtd>
                <mtd>
                    <mo>⋱</mo>
                </mtd>
            </mtr>
        </mtable>
        <mo>)</mo>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mfrac>
            <mrow>
                <munderover>
                    <mo>∑</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <mi>i</mi>
                        <mo>=</mo>
                        <mn>1</mn>
                    </mrow>
                    <mi>n</mi>
                </munderover>
                <mrow>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <msub>
                            <mi>x</mi>
                            <mi>i</mi>
                        </msub>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mover>
                            <mi>x</mi>
                            <mo>¯</mo>
                        </mover>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <msub>
                            <mi>y</mi>
                            <mi>i</mi>
                        </msub>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mover>
                            <mi>y</mi>
                            <mo>¯</mo>
                        </mover>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                </mrow>
            </mrow>
            <mrow>
                <msup>
                    <mrow>
                        <mo>[</mo>
                        <mrow>
                            <munderover>
                                <mo>∑</mo>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mi>i</mi>
                                    <mo>=</mo>
                                    <mn>1</mn>
                                </mrow>
                                <mi>n</mi>
                            </munderover>
                            <msup>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mo>(</mo>
                                    <msub>
                                        <mi>x</mi>
                                        <mi>i</mi>
                                    </msub>
                                    <mo>-</mo>
                                    <mover>
                                        <mi>x</mi>
                                        <mo>¯</mo>
                                    </mover>
                                    <mo>)</mo>
                                </mrow>
                                <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                        </mrow>
                        <mrow>
                            <munderover>
                                <mo>∑</mo>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mi>i</mi>
                                    <mo>=</mo>
                                    <mn>1</mn>
                                </mrow>
                                <mi>n</mi>
                            </munderover>
                            <msup>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mo>(</mo>
                                    <msub>
                                        <mi>y</mi>
                                        <mi>i</mi>
                                    </msub>
                                    <mo>-</mo>
                                    <mover>
                                        <mi>y</mi>
                                        <mo>¯</mo>
                                    </mover>
                                    <mo>)</mo>
                                </mrow>
                                <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                        </mrow>
                        <mo>]</mo>
                    </mrow>
                    <mfrac bevelled="true">
                        <mn>1</mn>
                        <mn>2</mn>
                    </mfrac>
                </msup>
            </mrow>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>

<pre><![CDATA[
<math display="block" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
    <mrow>
        <mfrac>
            <mrow>
                <munderover>
                    <mo>∑</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <mi>i</mi>
                        <mo>=</mo>
                        <mn>1</mn>
                    </mrow>
                    <mi>n</mi>
                </munderover>
                <mrow>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <msub>
                            <mi>x</mi>
                            <mi>i</mi>
                        </msub>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mover>
                            <mi>x</mi>
                            <mo>¯</mo>
                        </mover>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                    <mo>(</mo>
                    <mrow>
                        <msub>
                            <mi>y</mi>
                            <mi>i</mi>
                        </msub>
                        <mo>-</mo>
                        <mover>
                            <mi>y</mi>
                            <mo>¯</mo>
                        </mover>
                    </mrow>
                    <mo>)</mo>
                </mrow>
            </mrow>
            <mrow>
                <msup>
                    <mrow>
                        <mo>[</mo>
                        <mrow>
                            <munderover>
                                <mo>∑</mo>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mi>i</mi>
                                    <mo>=</mo>
                                    <mn>1</mn>
                                </mrow>
                                <mi>n</mi>
                            </munderover>
                            <msup>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mo>(</mo>
                                    <msub>
                                        <mi>x</mi>
                                        <mi>i</mi>
                                    </msub>
                                    <mo>-</mo>
                                    <mover>
                                        <mi>x</mi>
                                        <mo>¯</mo>
                                    </mover>
                                    <mo>)</mo>
                                </mrow>
                                <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                        </mrow>
                        <mrow>
                            <munderover>
                                <mo>∑</mo>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mi>i</mi>
                                    <mo>=</mo>
                                    <mn>1</mn>
                                </mrow>
                                <mi>n</mi>
                            </munderover>
                            <msup>
                                <mrow>
                                    <mo>(</mo>
                                    <msub>
                                        <mi>y</mi>
                                        <mi>i</mi>
                                    </msub>
                                    <mo>-</mo>
                                    <mover>
                                        <mi>y</mi>
                                        <mo>¯</mo>
                                    </mover>
                                    <mo>)</mo>
                                </mrow>
                                <mn>2</mn>
                            </msup>
                        </mrow>
                        <mo>]</mo>
                    </mrow>
                    <mfrac bevelled="true">
                        <mn>1</mn>
                        <mn>2</mn>
                    </mfrac>
                </msup>
            </mrow>
        </mfrac>
    </mrow>
</math>
]]></pre>

<h2>Conclusion</h2>

<p>You've reached the end of the introduction. You are now ready to read the
rest of Gemse's documentation. You might also want to look into the
<a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/">MathML specification</a>.
More speicifically, you might want to look at the
<a href="https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/chapter3.html">Presentation Markup</a>
chapter. Good luck.</p>

</body>

</html>
