<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY  enter  "↵">
  <!ENTITY  esc    "ESC">
  <!ENTITY  ctrl   "CRTL+">
  <!ENTITY  alt    "ALT+">
  <!ENTITY  space  "␣">
]>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/internalns"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xml:lang="en"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Gemse Base</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
    <script src="../const.js"/>
    <script src="../attributeMode.js"/>
    <script src="../attributeMode_commandTable.js"/>
    <script src="commandListProcessing.js"/>
</head>

<body onload="modeCommands = attributeModeCommands; init()">

<h1>Attribute Mode</h1>

<div id="commands">
<h2>Commands</h2>

<table>
<thead><tr><th>Command</th><th>title</th><th>Function name</th><th>type</th></tr></thead>
<tbody id="commandTableBody">

</tbody>
</table>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_down">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to next attribute</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the next attribute.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_up">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to previous attribute</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the previous attribute.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_kill">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Delete attribute</h3>

    <p>Deletes an attribute.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_insertDefault">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Inserts an attribute using the default namespace</h3>

    <p>Use this command to insert an attribute that is in the default
    namespace (which applies to all MathML attributes). After this
    command, write the name of the attribute, hit enter, write the
    value and hit enter again.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_insertForeign">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Inserts an attribute using the given namespace</h3>

    <p>Use this command to insert an attribute that is not in the
    default namespace. After this
    command, write the namespace of the attribute, hit enter, write the
    name, hit enter, write the
    value and hit enter a third time.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_changeValue">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Change Value</h3>

    <p>Changes the value of the attribute selected by the cursor.
    Simply write the new value behind the command and hit enter.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_clearAll">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Delete all</h3>

    <p>Deletes all attributes</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_setFromDictionary">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Set attributes according to dictionary</h3>

    <p>On an <code>mo</code> element, you can use
    <kbd><internal:cmdph/>&enter;</kbd> to set the attributes
    according to the dictionary entry for this operator, as shown in the
    dictionary view. If there is more than one entry, the one is chosen
    wich has the same form, as given in the form attribute of the element,
    or, if not present, as deduced automatically. If there are still
    multiple choices, you can enter the disambiguation string after
    the command, before hitting enter.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="attributeModeCommand_exit">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Exit</h3>

    <p>Terminates attribute mode.</p>
</div>

</div>
</body>
</html>
