<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY  enter  "↵">
  <!ENTITY  esc    "ESC">
  <!ENTITY  ctrl   "CRTL+">
  <!ENTITY  alt    "ALT+">
  <!ENTITY  space  "␣">
]>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/internalns"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xml:lang="en"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Gemse Base</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
    <script src="../const.js"/>
    <script src="../editMode.js"/>
    <script src="../editMode_commandTable.js"/>
    <script src="commandListProcessing.js"/>
</head>

<body onload="modeCommands = editModeCommands; init()">

<h1>Edit Mode</h1>

<div id="commands">
<h2>Commands</h2>

<table>
<thead><tr><th>Command</th><th>title</th><th>Function name</th><th>type</th></tr></thead>
<tbody id="commandTableBody">

</tbody>
</table>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveLeft">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move left</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the previous sibling.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveRight">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move right</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the next sibling.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveUp">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to parent</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the parent the current element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveDown">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to first child</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the first child of the current one.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveDownLast">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to last child</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the last child of the current one.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveToRoot">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to root</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the root element, i.e. to the math
    element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveToFirstSibling">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to first sibling</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the first sibling of the current
    element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_moveToLastSibling">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Move to last sibling</h3>

    <p>Moves the cursor to the last sibling of the current
    element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_nextEquation">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Go to next equation</h3>

    <p>If you have opened more than one equation, you can use this
    command to switch to the next equation.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_previousEquation">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">go to previous equation</h3>

    <p>If you have opened more than one equation, you can use this
    command to switch to the previous equation.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_newEquation">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Create a new equation</h3>

    <p>Creates a new empty equation.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_redisplay">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Update display</h3>

    <p>In rare cases it may happen (perhaps because of a bug) that the
    display does not get updated. In such a case you can use this command
    to force an update of the display.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_insertBefore">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">insert before</h3>

    <p>Open the insert mode such that the cursor is placed before the
    current element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_insertAfter">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">insert after</h3>

    <p>Open the insert mode such that the cursor is placed after the
    current element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_insertAtEnd">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">insert at end</h3>

    <p>Open the insert mode such that the cursor is placed after the
    last sibling of the curent element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_insertAtBeginning">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">insert at beginning</h3>

    <p>Open the insert mode such that the cursor is placed before the
    first sibling</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_insertIn">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">insert after</h3>

    <p>Open the insert mode such that the cursor is placed into the
    current empty element. <em>The current element must be empty!</em></p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_visualMode">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Visual</h3>

    <p>Opens the visual mode so you can make a selection and execute
    an edit mode command on it.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_attributeMode">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Attribute mode</h3>

    <p>Opens the attribute mode so you can change the attributes of
    the current element</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_kill">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Delete Element</h3>

    <p>Deletes the element the cursor is on.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_delete">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Delete selection</h3>

    <p>Deletes all (by visual mode) selected elements.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_change">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Change selection</h3>

    <p>Deletes all (by visual mode) selected elements and opens the
    insert mode.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_undo">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Undo</h3>

    <p>Makes your last change undone. You can undo multiple changes.
    The <a href="#editModeCommand_redoc">redo</a> command can be 
    used to apply them again, to undo the undo, so to say.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_redo">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Redo</h3>

    <p>Reapplies the last undone change. This is only possible if you
    have made no changes since the undo. A redo can be undone again.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_mrowEnvelop">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Put mrow around selection</h3>

    <p>Places an mrow element around the selected elements.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_help">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Help</h3>

    <p>Without any arguments, this command opens the index of the
    documentaion. If you use <q>tutorial</q> as argument, the tutorial
    gets opened directly. You can use <q>element</q> as argument to open
    the section about the element the cursor is on from the MathML 3
    specification. If you want to open the section of another element, you
    can write the name of it behind the <q>element</q> argument, for
    example <q>element mfrac</q>.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_copyToRegister">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">yank</h3>

    <p>Copies the selection into a register. If there is no selection,
    the element under the cursor is taken. By default, it copies to
    the default register. Another register can be used by prepending
    the command with <kbd>"x</kbd> where <code>x</code> is the name of
    the register which is always one unicode character.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_putBefore">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Put before</h3>

    <p>Puts the contents of a register before the current element. 
    By default, it uses
    the default register. Another register can be used by prepending
    the command with <kbd>"x</kbd> where <code>x</code> is the name of
    the register which is always one unicode character.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_putAfter">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Put after</h3>

    <p>Puts the contents of a register after the current element. 
    By default, it uses
    the default register. Another register can be used by prepending
    the command with <kbd>"x</kbd> where <code>x</code> is the name of
    the register which is always one unicode character.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="editModeCommand_putIn">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Put in</h3>

    <p>Puts the contents of a register into the current element. 
    <em>The current element must be empty!</em>
    By default, it uses
    the default register. Another register can be used by prepending
    the command with <kbd>"x</kbd> where <code>x</code> is the name of
    the register which is always one unicode character.</p>
</div>

</div>
</body>
</html>
