<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!DOCTYPE html [
  <!ENTITY  enter  "↵">
  <!ENTITY  esc    "ESC">
  <!ENTITY  ctrl   "CRTL+">
  <!ENTITY  alt    "ALT+">
  <!ENTITY  space  "␣">
]>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/internalns"
    xmlns:m="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"
    xml:lang="en"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Trivial Insert Mode</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
    <script src="../const.js"/>
    <script src="../trivialInsertMode.js"/>
    <script src="../trivialInsertMode_commandTable.js"/>
    <script src="commandListProcessing.js"/>
</head>

<body onload="modeCommands = trivialInsertModeCommands; init()">

<h1>Trivial Insert Mode</h1>

<h2></h2>

<p>The trivial insert mode works like this: First you have to tell
what element you want, then you can enter its content. When you are
done with the content, you can usually let the cursor jump behind the
element. In this way, you enter an expression in a depth first
manner. Okay, this sounds a little bit esoterically.</p>

<p>Elements like <code>mi</code>, <code>mo</code>, <code>mn</code>
that contain text directly can be usually created in two ways. One way
is to create an element with one character as content:
For example
<kbd><internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_miSingle"/></kbd>
is used to create an <code>mi</code> element. Now you need to enter
the character which will be the content and the element will be
created immediately and the cursor placed behind it. So, for example.
<kbd><internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_miSingle"/>α</kbd>
enters an <code>mi</code> element containing α.
The second way is to create an element with more than one character.
For example 
<kbd><internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_miLong"/>sin&enter;</kbd>
creates an <code>mi</code> element containing <code>sin</code>.</p>

<p>Elements that actually can have children are treated differently.
As soon as you hit the corresponding command, they get created
immediately. For those that have a fixed amount of children, as many
placeholder elements get inserted. For the others, one placeholder
gets inserted. The cursor is placed in front of the first placeholder.
When you enter a next element, it will replace the placeholder. If you are
done inserting the children for this element, you can hit
<kbd><internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_cursorJump"/></kbd>. 
This causes the cursor to be placed behind the element whose content you
are inserting.</p>


<div id="commands">
<h2>Commands</h2>

<table>
<thead><tr><th>Command</th><th>title</th><th>Function name</th><th>type</th></tr></thead>
<tbody id="commandTableBody">

</tbody>
</table>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_miSingle">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Single character identifier</h3>

    <p>Inserts an identifier (an <code>mi</code> element) containing a
    single character. Simply type the command and then the
    character.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_miLong">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Multi character identifier</h3>

    <p>Inserts an identifier (an <code>mi</code> element) containing
    as many characters as you want. Type the command, then the
    characters the element should contain. Terminate with
    <kbd>&enter;</kbd>.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_moNormal">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Single character operator</h3>

    <p>Inserts an operator (an <code>mo</code> element) containing a
    single character. Simply type the command and then the
    character.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_moLong">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Multi character identifier</h3>

    <p>Inserts an operator (an <code>mo</code> element) containing
    as many characters as you want. Type the command, then the
    characters the element should contain. Terminate with
    <kbd>&enter;</kbd>.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mnNormal">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Normal Number</h3>

    <p>Inserts a number (an <code>mn</code> element) containing
    a number which may begin with <code>+</code> or <code>-</code> and
    consists otherwise only of digits (0 to 9) and a (dezimal)
    point. After typing the command, you can type the number right
    away. When you type a character that can not belong to the number,
    the insert mode detects that the number is complete and will
    insert it. The last character inserted will be considered for the
    next command. If you are not going to insert another character
    behind the number (for example because you want to terminate the mode),
    you can use the space bar to force termination. Be aware that
    because of a bug, if you want to hit <kbd>&enter;</kbd> afterwards,
    you must use <kbd>&space;</kbd> first.</p>

    <p>In order to get 
    <math xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML">
      <mrow>
        <mn>250</mn>
        <mo>×</mo>
        <mn>0.4</mn>
        <mo>=</mo>
        <mn>5</mn>
      </mrow>
    </math>
    you can type
    <kbd><internal:cmdph/>250<internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_moNormal"/>×<internal:cmdph/>0.4<internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_moNormal"/>=<internal:cmdph/>5<internal:cmdph ref="trivialInsertModeCommand_cursorJump"/></kbd>
    </p>

</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mnLong">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Long number</h3>

    <p>If you need an exotically written number or a number of a
    script Gemse does not know about, you can use this command. For
    example <kbd><internal:cmdph/>7e00&enter;</kbd> inserts a number
    in hexadecimal notation.</p>

    <p>Do not use this command to insert complex numbers like
    <code><![CDATA[<mn>1+2𝕚</mn>]]></code>. In this case you should
    use <code><![CDATA[<mrow><mn>1</mn><mo>+</mo><mn>2</mn><mi>𝕚</mi></mrow>]]></code>!</p>

</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mrow">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mrow</h3>

    <p>Inserts an <code>mrow</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_none">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">none</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>none</code> element. This is used only inside
    an <code>mmultiscripty</code> element, designating an empty
    script.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mfrac">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mfrac</h3>

    <p>Inserts an <code>mfrac</code> element, a fraction.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_msub">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">msub</h3>

    <p>Inserts an <code>msub</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_msup">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">msup</h3>

    <p>Inserts an <code>msup</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_msubsup">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">msubsup</h3>

    <p>Inserts an <code>msubsup</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_msqrt">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">msqrt</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>msqrt</code> element, a square root.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mroot">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mroot</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>mroot</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_munder">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">munder</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>munder</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mover">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mover</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>mover</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_munderover">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">munderover</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>munderover</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_menclose">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">menclose</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>menclose</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mfenced">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mfenced</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>mfenced</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mmultiscripts">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mmultiscripts</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>mmultiscripts</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mprescripts">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mprescripts</h3>

    <p>Inserts a <code>mprescripts</code> element. This element is
    only used as child of an <code>mmultiscripts</code> element. It
    signifies that all elements that follow it are to be interpreded
    as prescripts.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_table">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">table</h3>

    <p>This command can insert various table elements, depending on
    the element the cursor lies in. If it is located in an
    <code>mtable</code> element, it creates an <code>mtr</code>
    element, i.e. a table row. If it is located in a row, it creates
    an <code>mtd</code> element, a table cell. Otherwise, it creates
    always an <code>mtable</code> element.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_mlabeledtr">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">mlabeledtr</h3>

    <p>If you need a labeled row in a table, use this comand.</p>
</div>


<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_cursorJump">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Let cursor jump</h3>

    <p>When you insert an element that can have children, the cursor
    is automatically into it. When you are done inserting the children
    you need, you can use this command to move the cursor out again, right
    behind the element so you can insert siblings.</p>
</div>

<div class="commandDocumentation" id="trivialInsertModeCommand_exit">
    <h3 class="commandTitle">Exit mode</h3>

    <p>Terminates the insert mode.</p>
</div>

</div>
</body>
</html>
