<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<html
    xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:internal="http://www.andonyar.com/math/editor"
    xml:lang="de"
    internal:function="documentation"
>

<head>
    <title>Gemse Tutorial</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../gemse.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Gemse Tutorial</h1>

<p>Gemse is inspired by the texteditor 
<a href="http://www.vim.org/">Vim</a>. It is difficult to learn, but
hopefully will be a powerful tool once it is finished. However, I am
sure you will master it, if you want to.</p>

<p>You wont need any knowledge about vim for this tutorial. But you
will need knowledge about presentation MathML. You can find tutorials
and the specification of MathML on the 
<a href="http://www.w3.org/Math/">MathML page of the w3c</a>. Note
that you do not need to care about content MathML, you only need basic
knowledge about the presentation markup of MathML. Of course learning
presentation MathML requires learning the fundamentals of XML. Gemse
directly edits the XML structure of presentation MathML.</p>

<h2>Starting Gemse</h2>

<p>Gemse 1 is an application written in Javascript using mozilla. So,
if you have installed Firefox 3 you are already lucky. Otherwise I can
not help for the moment.</p>

<h2>Moving around</h2>

<h2>Deleting</h2>

<h2>Undo and redo</h2>

<h2>Inserting</h2>

<h2>Copying and Pasting</h2>

<h2>The attribute mode</h2>

<h2>Customizing</h2>

<p>If you want to change the appreance of Gemse, you have to lay hands on
the file <code>gemse.css</code>. Note that the documentation also uses this
stylesheet file, so the examples in it are always consistent with your
changes.</p>

<p>If you do not like the keyboard layout, i.e. you want to change the
name of the commands, you have to look into the javascript file
belonging to the mode you want to change. So for the edit mode, you
have to open <code>editMode.js</code> and look for the definition of the
<code>editModeCommands</code>. Their you can change the keys used for
these commands.</p>

</body>

</html>
