<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg.dtd" >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de">
<head>
    <title>Gemse Approach 1</title>
    <link rel="meta" type="application/rdf+xml" title="Metadata in RDF" href="A.rdf" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Gemse Approach 1: An editor for Presentation and Content MathML</h1>

<p>Gemse Approach 1 is an editor for mathematical formulas using
Presentation or Content MathML.
Unlike other editors, this one is neither intuitive
nor easy to learn and you must have a basic understanding of
MathML. It is controlled with the keyboard only, its user
interface is highly inspired by the text editor vi. The goal is to be
able to edit equations as fast as possible.</p>

<p>Gemse Approach 1 is implemented in JavaScript using DOM. It runs in
the webbrowser Firefox 3 and in XULRunner 1.9.</p>

<p>Gemse finally has become a useful tool. The most important features
have been implemented. However,
the newest version still is not a production release,
its intention is only to get feedback from interested users.</p>

<p>The current release is 1.0.11. Read the
<a href="demo/doc/releasenotes.xhtml">release notes</a> or the 
<a href="demo/doc/index.xhtml">documentation</a>.
Visit the <a href="https://trac.mathweb.org/gemse/">wiki and the bug tracker</a>.</p>

<h2>Download and install</h2>

<p>You can choose from the following variants:</p>

<ul>
<li>If you are using Firefox 3, <a href="demo/editor.xul">try the
online demo</a>.</li>
<li><a href="releases/gemseFirefoxExtension-1-0-11.xpi">Install Gemse as
Firefox extension</a>. Then you can open it by
visiting <code>chrome://gemse/content/editor.xul</code> and read its
documentation at <code>chrome://gemse/content/doc/index.xhtml</code>.</li>
<li>Get <a href="releases/gemseXULRunnerApplication-1-0-11.zip">Gemse
as XULRunner application</a> and run it with XULRunner 1.9.</li>
<li>Use the <a href="releases/gemseMinimal-1-0-11.zip">minimal version</a> with 
less weird directory structure, intended to be
run outside of Firefox chrome, like the demo. Just unzip it and open
<code>editor.xul</code> in Firefox. (If you do that, not
all commands will work since Firefox prevents access to your system.)</li>
<li>Get the <a href="releases/gemse_src-1-0-11.tar.gz">whole source</a>. (As
tar ball, since the directory structure I use for development makes
use of symbolic links.)</li>
<li>Clone the <a href="http://git-scm.com/">git</a> repository from 
<code>http://www.andonyar.com/rec/2008-12/gemse/repo/gemse_public.git</code></li>
</ul>

<p><em>Important:</em> Loading and saving of equations has been
reimplemented in the latest release, so it may be buggy. Please be
careful and make a backup of your document before you edit it with
Gemse. Also, please report any misfeatures back to me.
However, if you use the demo or the minimal version, you are on the
save side, since Firefox prevents access to your system.</p>

<h2>Bugs and more Help: <a href="https://trac.mathweb.org/gemse/">Trac site</a></h2>

<p>If you want to learn more about Gemse than the documentation
bundled with Gemse can teach you, take a look at 
<a href="https://trac.mathweb.org/gemse/">Gemse's Trac site</a>.
There you can also send in bug reports.</p>

<h2>What it is and what it is not</h2>

<p>Gemse is an interactive editor for Presentation MathML, completely
steered by keyboard. But let us look at that a bit more detailed:</p>

<p>Presentation MathML</p>

<ul>
<li>is too verbose to edit using a text editor</li>
<li>represents nicely the structure of a formula</li>
<li>is adapted to be used on the web</li>
<li>is by far not as powerful as LaTeX, since it is not a typesetting
laguage</li>
<li>does not encode the meaning of a formula, just its
appearance</li>
<li>uses Unicode (so, no need to include
some stupid package just to get that character)</li>
</ul>

<p>Content MathML</p>

<ul>
<li>represents the meaning of a formula, not its appearance</li>
<li>can be automatically converted to Presentation MathML in most
situations, given there are useful notation definitions</li>
<li>can be cumbersome to edit by hand, since you easily loose the
overview. Gemse helps here a little.</li>
<li>is very similar to OpenMath</li>
</ul>

<p>Gemse</p>

<ul>
<li>is completely controlled by keyboard, a mouse is useless</li>
<li>is similar to Vim</li>
<li>uses Mozilla (only runs in Firefox 3 or higher at the moment)</li>
<li>is not mature, as it is a young project</li>
<li>is fun</li>
</ul>

<h2>Roadmap</h2>

<p>For the 1.0 branch, all planned features have been implemented. From
now on, only small things will be added and bugs will be fixed. Some
of them are</p>

<ul>
    <li>Fix saving and loading of files</li>
    <li>Add important commands, mainly to the insert modes</li>
    <li>Add a way to load external notations for NTNView</li>
</ul>

<p>For the 1.1 branch, the following is planned:</p>

<ul>
    <li>Improve speed by checking out the following ideas:
        <ul>
            <li>Change the style sheets such that the matching of the
                rules is much quicker</li>
            <li>Try to do the construction of the views in parallel, using threads</li>
            <li>Instead of recreating the internal datastructures of
                the views from scratch, just change what needs to be
                changed</li>
        </ul>
    </li>
    <li>Support for command line arguments</li>
    <li>Reimplement undo/redo</li>
    <li>Drastically improve code quality</li>
</ul>

<h2>Licence</h2>

<p>Gemse is licenced under the GPL Version 3 or later. You can 
<a href="http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html">get information 
about this license</a> on the GNU website. A copy of the license text
is shipped together with Gemse.</p>

<p>If you like to have different license terms, please contact the
author. Gemse depends on libraries licenced under the GPL, so these
dependencies have to be removed if you want to distribute Gemse under
another licence.</p>

<h2>Relevant Literature</h2>

<p>You can find a list of relevant literature on 
<a href="./">Gemse's main page</a>.</p>

<h2>The Author</h2>

<address>Author: <a href="mailto:urs@andonyar.com">Urs Holzer</a></address>

</body>
</html>
