<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0 plus SVG 1.1//EN"
          "http://www.w3.org/2002/04/xhtml-math-svg/xhtml-math-svg.dtd" >

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de">
<head>
    <title>Gemse, the General Math Structure Editor</title>
    <link rel="meta" type="application/rdf+xml" title="Metadata in RDF" href="A.rdf" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Gemse, the General Math Structure Editor</h1>


<p><strong>Gemse is currently being ported to modern browsers.</strong></p>

<p>The project Gemse has been started in the need for an editor
for mathematical formulas that is fast and can be controlled by
keyboard only.</p>

<p><a href="approach1">Version 1 of Gemse</a> has been written for Mozilla back in the days
when it was possible to write full applications that properly integrate with
the host OS as if they were native. Unfortunately, Mozilla decided to get
rid of integration with foreign programming languages, the UI description
language XUL, and the whole extension infrastructure. After this castration of
the Mozilla platform, Gemse stayed unusable for many years. However, web
standards have evolved in a manner that allows an application like Gemse to be
written for every browser. This will become version 2 of Gemse.</p>

<p>You can track the progress in Gemse's
<a href="https://github.com/uholzer/gemse">repository on github</a>.</p>

<h2>Other solutions</h2>

<p>You can find other solutions on the
<a href="http://www.w3.org/Math/Software/">software list</a> of the
W3C.</p>

<h2>Literature</h2>

<ul>
<li>Unicode Technical Note #28: 
    <a href="http://www.unicode.org/notes/tn28/">Unicode Nearly Plain-Text Encoding of Mathematics</a></li>
<li>Unicode Technical Report #25:
    <a href="http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr25/">Unicode Support for Mathematics</a></li>
</ul>

<h2>Contact</h2>

<address>Author: <a href="mailto:urs@andonyar.com">Urs Holzer</a></address>

</body>
</html>
