<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="de">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <title>Requirements for gemse</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
 </style>
</head>

<body>
<p>Here I collect requirements for the gemse. These are whishes from future
users of gemse.</p>

<h1>Basic features</h1>
<ul>
  <li>Capturing and editing of the semantics of mathematical formulas</li>
  <li>Support for <a href="http://www.openmath.org/">OpenMath</a> and
    (content) <a href="http://www.w3.org/Math/">MathML</a></li>
</ul>

<h1>Various things</h1>
<ul>
  <li>Navigation through content dictionary entries and signs must be
  fast.</li>
  <li>Every feature should be accessible by mouse and by keyboard. (In hope
    that gemse will be fast with a pen on a tablet PC also.)</li>
  <li>gemse must produce OpenMath and Content MathML (if MathML can represent
    all content dictionaries).</li>
  <li>it must be posible to create presentational MathML, automatically
    derived from the semantics or influenced by the user. gemse must be able
    to synchronise semantics and presentation</li>
  <li>keyboard control should be fully configurable</li>
  <li>One should be able to create keyboard shortcuts and shortcut buttons
    while editing. This should be very dynamic. One should for example also
    be able to link the greek alphabet to the key G while editing.</li>
  <li>Various XSLT stylesheets for conversions from OpenMath and MathML to
    other languages should be available. (Though this hasn't to do anything
    with gemse itself.)</li>
  <li>It should be easy to change the layout of the elements of the user
    interface. (If gemse will use XUL, the user can simply edit the XUL
    description of the user interface.)</li>
  <li>The content dictionary browser should be able to handle <em>all</em>
    content dictionaries. It probably has to fetch some of them directly from
    the internet.</li>
  <li>The content dictionary browser also should be able to show the
    description of a content dictionary entry. This could be very useful as
    help for the user.</li>
  <li>It would be very great if gemse could be part of <a
    href="http://www.w3.org/Amaya/">Amaya</a>.</li>
  <li>Gemse should also be an authoring tool for <a
    href="http://www.omdoc.org/">OMDoc</a>.</li>
</ul>

<h1>graphical interface</h1>

<p>A short description of the parts that should be in the user interface:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Most important, on the top, a big view of the structure of the formula,
    i.e. the OpenMath document structure displayed as nested boxes.</li>
  <li>On the bottom, the presentation of the formula, i.e. the rendering of
    the content MathML.</li>
  <li>The bar on the right (and perhaps also one on the left) will be used to
    offer content dictionary entries, signs, operations on the semantic
    structure and operations on the presentational structure to the user.</li>
</ul>
</body>
</html>
